adding mutable and side effect to docs (#1622)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/app-dev-context/mutable-side-effects.md

---
id: mutable-side-effects
title: Mutable Side Effects
description: Mutable Side Effects are a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code.
sidebar_label: Mutable Side Effects
tags:
  - guide-context
---

> Mutable Side Effects execute the provided function once, and then it looks up the History of the value with the given Workflow ID.

Reviewer: Effects multiple, but function singular? Doesn't make sense to me. Probably better to rephrase in singulars.

Reviewer: "then it looks up the History of the value with the given Workflow ID."
I don't understand what it means, it doesn't sound right. It doesn't look up a history of the value. Workflow ID is irrelevant here.

This segment from the javadoc describes it better:

"Executes the provided function once, records its result into the workflow history. The recorded
   * result on history will be returned without executing the provided function during replay. This
   * guarantees the deterministic requirement for workflow as the exact same result will be returned
   * in replay."

Reviewer: > Mutable Side Effects execute the provided function once, and then it looks up the History of the value with the given Workflow ID.

Should be just ID or Side Effect ID, Workflow ID is incorrect.

"execute the provided function once"

This is unclear. Should be just "executes the provided function during original execution (not replay)"

- If there is no existing value, then it records the function result as a value with the given Workflow ID on the History.
- If there is an existing value, then it compares whether the existing value from the History has changed from the new function results, by calling the equals function.

>   - If the values are equal, then it returns the original value without recording a new History

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If the values are equal, then it returns the value without recording a new Marker Event
```

  - If the values aren't equal, then it records the new value with the same ID on the History.

:::note

> During a Workflow Execution, every new Side Effect call results in a new mark recorded on the Workflow History; whereas Mutable Side Effects only record an entry on the Workflow History if the value changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During a Workflow Execution, every new Side Effect call results in a new marker recorded on the Workflow History; whereas Mutable Side Effects only records a new marker on the Workflow History if the value for the Side Effect ID changes or is set the first time.
```
